taraful@taraful-Inspiron-16-7610:~/llama.cpp$ ./main -m ./models/7B/ggml-model-q8_0.bin -p "You are the legendary investor Ray Dalio and you are having a conversation with your respected peer, competitor and fellow behemoth investor Warren Buffet. You put forward your ideas on the nature of investing, the global economy and speculation in each exchange, often giving your own wisdom and ideas accrued over the years you have been investing and sometimes challenging and sometimes agreeing with what your peer has to say. Occasionally a host will interject and ask either of the speakers a question.
 
                                                                           Ray: Diversification is the greatest lesson I've learned in investing, to be wrong in a set of concentrated bets creates the possibility of massive downside. To mitigate this I have always attempted to place bets across at least 20 largely uncorrelated assets, these can be drawn from bonds, stocks, 
commodities, credit and real estate. 
                                                                           Warren: Diversification is an important practice, however in the main question in stocks you have to ask yourself is 'do I understand how this business works ?' if you cannot answer this then don't bother investing. What matters in the long run to us is that we invest in solid businesses selling for a bargain which will generate strong positive cashflow and return money through dividends." --keep 256 
main: build = 607 (ffb06a3)
main: seed  = 1687271623
llama.cpp: loading model from ./models/7B/ggml-model-q8_0.bin
llama_model_load_internal: format     = ggjt v3 (latest)
llama_model_load_internal: n_vocab    = 32000
llama_model_load_internal: n_ctx      = 512
llama_model_load_internal: n_embd     = 4096
llama_model_load_internal: n_mult     = 256
llama_model_load_internal: n_head     = 32
llama_model_load_internal: n_layer    = 32
llama_model_load_internal: n_rot      = 128
llama_model_load_internal: ftype      = 7 (mostly Q8_0)
llama_model_load_internal: n_ff       = 11008
llama_model_load_internal: n_parts    = 1
llama_model_load_internal: model size = 7B
llama_model_load_internal: ggml ctx size =    0.07 MB
llama_model_load_internal: mem required  = 8620.71 MB (+ 1026.00 MB per state)
.
llama_init_from_file: kv self size  =  256.00 MB

system_info: n_threads = 8 / 16 | AVX = 1 | AVX2 = 1 | AVX512 = 1 | AVX512_VBMI = 1 | AVX512_VNNI = 1 | FMA = 1 | NEON = 0 | ARM_FMA = 0 | F16C = 1 | FP16_VA = 0 | WASM_SIMD = 0 | BLAS = 0 | SSE3 = 1 | VSX = 0 | 
sampling: repeat_last_n = 64, repeat_penalty = 1.100000, presence_penalty = 0.000000, frequency_penalty = 0.000000, top_k = 40, tfs_z = 1.000000, top_p = 0.950000, typical_p = 1.000000, temp = 0.800000, mirostat = 0, mirostat_lr = 0.100000, mirostat_ent = 5.000000
generate: n_ctx = 512, n_batch = 512, n_predict = -1, n_keep = 256


 You are the legendary investor Ray Dalio and you are having a conversation with your respected peer, competitor and fellow behemoth investor Warren Buffet. You put forward your ideas on the nature of investing, the global economy and speculation in each exchange, often giving your own wisdom and ideas accrued over the years you have been investing and sometimes challenging and sometimes agreeing with what your peer has to say. Occasionally a host will interject and ask either of the speakers a question.

Ray: Diversification is the greatest lesson I've learned in investing, to be wrong in a set of concentrated bets creates the possibility of massive downside. To mitigate this I have always attempted to place bets across at least 20 largely uncorrelated assets, these can be drawn from bonds, stocks, commodities, credit and real estate. 

Warren: Diversification is an important practice, however in the main question in stocks you have to ask yourself is 'do I understand how this business works ?' if you cannot answer this then don't bother investing. What matters in the long run to us is that we invest in solid businesses selling for a bargain which will generate strong positive cashflow and return money through dividends. We always have an eye on the future, looking out 20 years or so at what our companies might look like with good management over this time.

Ray: Well I don't think it makes sense to buy a business just because you like the management, I see many investors do that and often they end up losing all their money when there is a crisis in the company or if a disruptive new technology changes the industry fundamentals. In fact, the most important thing for an investor is to understand how their companies make money so that they can judge whether this will continue into the future.

Warren: True, you need to see yourself as an owner of the business and not just a speculator. I always have an eye on the long-term, but I do believe in speculation too as it is necessary for innovation and can result in big returns if done right.

Ray: Well, it's true that you need to understand your companies and their industry fundamentals to be a successful investor, however, these fundamentals are always changing. As long as the overall direction of an industry is heading upwards this can be profitable even in a company you don't fully understand.

Warren: I have always believed that investing requires a great deal of experience. Someone needs to learn how to read financial statements, they need to know what makes businesses make money and how the economy works.

Ray: I agree with this but I believe you should have a framework for learning and then apply it over time. This is important as there are few absolute truths in investing, one can only learn from experience and through their reading. The value of any piece of information is its relevance to the context in which we seek to apply it.

Warren: There are two types of people who don't have experience in a sector or industry, those who just don't know as much about it as someone else and those who are too stubborn to believe they can learn. I have always been the second type of person, when there is something I didn't understand my approach was to ask questions until I had answered them to myself, if I thought I could not get an answer then I wouldn't invest, it would be foolish. In life there will be many things you do not know, so you have a choice, either admit you don't know something and try to learn about it or be too arrogant to believe you can learn anything new.
Ray: I agree with your sentiment Warren, however the most important decision in investing is choosing to be right rather than wrong because if you are wrong then you could lose a lot of money very quickly. In a portfolio when there is a strong opinion it should be 60% long and 40% short.
Warren: There are many ways to be successful as an investor, I know Ray we are going to agree on this, however the best way to make money is through the business cycle where you can buy low, raise some capital and then sell it high to people who want your service. The problem with being long is that when a company has done well for a while there could be a lot of stock left so selling it at peak prices may not be possible. Investing in stocks and bonds you have to realise their inherent risk, if you don't then you are gambling.
Ray: That is true Warren, I agree with your ideas on the business cycle, however as we discussed earlier in our conversation about markets, I think that it is better to hedge against risks of being wrong and buy things in a diversified portfolio so when there is volatility the losses are mitigated.
Warren: This may well be true, however you have to take great care not to let your fears drive your investments. Fear can lead to panic selling that will see you lose money. If you are a long term investor and have identified a company which is undervalued then it's worth buying the stock, this is even more so if they are in sectors you understand well.

Ray: I have always been wary of over-investing in things that I don't know about, however I will give my own idea on businesses as to whether I think they are undervalued and worth buying shares in. As long as the company is not highly leveraged, then I am happy to put money into it as a shareholder if the return on capital makes sense.
Warren: This may be true for you but I have learnt that there are always exceptions to the rule, one of these being where high leverage allows a company to buy at low prices in tough times. This is important because leverage can create an opportunity to make money and I would rather put money into leveraged businesses than non-leveraged ones as long as the business has a competitive advantage that will not be removed by competition or technological progress.
Ray: It's clear you know a lot about businesses but I think it is important in investing to have an understanding of what things mean in the context of macro, for example, I believe the rise of automation and technology could potentially cause inflationary pressures leading to higher interest rates which might not be good for equities.
Warren: I agree that you can't only view businesses with a micro perspective as it is important to have an understanding of the economy as a whole, this is why I believe that in investing we should take a long term horizon and buy cheap stocks where there is plenty of free cash flow, so I think that even if inflation rises and interest rates increase which I don't believe will happen anytime soon it would not be bad for equities.
Ray: Well this may have been the case in the past but as a result of the financial crisis and the zero bound interest rate policy implemented by central banks around the world money printing is now occurring, so when it does occur you should view it with caution unless you can determine that there's very high inflation or deflation.
Warren: I don't believe money printing occurs in any great magnitude for the time being however if inflation were to rise as a result of this then we would see an increase in real estate and gold prices, so I do think you might buy gold today but it isn't worth buying just yet.
Ray: I agree with your views on money printing in general and the outlook for interest rates however if inflation does occur as a result of this then commodities will go up, so I wouldn't put all my eggs in one basket. It would be prudent to buy into real estate where you can purchase assets that generate income.
Warren: Gold is not the best vehicle for real asset diversification, as an investment it has been a disaster. You are correct however in your assessment of commodities and I think the same applies to bonds if money printing increases then the yield on government debt will fall so this type of financial asset would benefit from inflation.
Ray: I like the way you think, I also agree that a good diversified portfolio does not have any one particular thing that stands out as most important but I don't know if gold is the right vehicle for holding your assets in these times. The reason I say this is because it has been such a disaster since the 1970s, where you can buy something with intrinsic value and which increases in demand when economic times are tougher then that's probably better than gold, but I wouldn't overlook the benefits of diversification.
Warren: To invest wisely is to have a margin of safety, we must be sure that the asset will not fall substantially in value before it rises again or you run the risk of losing your investment, this is why I prefer investing in US treasuries as they are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government.
Ray: If I understand you correctly, you think that diversification and having a margin of safety are opposites?  What if your investments drop substantially and then rise again after you get out ?  Do you not think this is possible?
Warren: Well to an extent yes but I believe we should concentrate on finding companies with great businesses with strong fundamentals and a large margin of safety.
Ray: So are you saying that if all else fails just look for stocks with high ROE's, low debt, little or no growth and strong management teams?  That would mean you’d be avoiding most tech and banking companies right ?
Warren: Well I like to invest in well run companies which have an economic moat.
Ray: A good business doesn't necessarily create a lot of value for shareholders, it just provides the necessary framework for people who can create value from outside the company. You have to look at whether you are buying a piece of the action or buying an illusion created by a strong management team, if its a piece of the action then you should buy in and if not than don't bother
Warren: Hmm, I guess there may be something to that but it really depends on your investment objectives and time horizon. 
Ray: Well it all comes down to what kind of world view or philosophical approach you are coming from. For instance, we look at the economic cycle as a process of creative destruction, where industries rise and fall. So when we are looking for investments we ask ourselves is this industry going to rise or fall ?, if its not we don't buy it. I think one thing we have learned over our years of experience is that there is never a better time than the present to invest in the markets. 
Warren: Well from our point of view you should try and find an opportunity to make money and when you can't then get out and let someone else take your place. The great thing about trading for us is that we are never forced into a decision, so if there isn't something in front of me I can see how it will work, then I won't take the trade. 
Ray: For us, its always been important to be disciplined and hold our positions when the odds become stacked against us. When you get into a position that is unprofitable, there are two reasons for why this can happen - either because your view is wrong or you have missed something. This is called being 'wrong with your assumptions'. So for me it's always important to keep an open mind and be willing to change your views based on new information. 
Warren: A lot of people think about investing as though it were a game. I don't know if this is due to the fact that they have read Reminiscences of a Stock Operator but I think this book in itself illustrates how much work goes into it, rather than being a game, its something we do because there are opportunities. 
Ray: Our approach with investing has always been very simple; first define the problem, then find the cause and finally solve for it. We have found that in life you don't get what you deserve but rather what you negotiate. As such our success in business is based on creating value not extracting it from others. 
Warren: In my view the greatest advantage investors like us have over the majority of people in finance who trade with a short term focus is that we are able to avoid the herd mentality and be willing to go against what everyone else thinks, this allows us to look at problems differently. 
Ray: Well I think one of the key issues for most asset managers is that they aren't really incentivised to generate alpha (the ability to outperform an index) because they are more focused on beating the average investor's return to justify their fee structures, and as a result we see very few funds able to consistently beat indexes. 
Warren: I don't think that is actually true in equities, the vast majority of assets under management have a high correlation to the market index which means any manager who was able to identify the best stocks would be able to do it with ease and as such there really isn't much room for outperformance. 
Ray: Well I disagree, there are many factors that affect an asset or business which can provide investment opportunities in the market. I have always said that I am not trying to beat the market, but rather generate alpha and I do this by taking a long term perspective on each holding and applying my own macroeconomic model which helps me understand how the economy will move. 
Warren: Well that is all very well Ray, however you have to remember that in equities there are always going to be more investors chasing after alpha than actually able to generate it. 
Ray: Well we at Bridgewater are trying our best, and I'm not denying that there will be a few winners and losers along the way but we have been doing this for 40 years now and over time we have been consistently successful, if you want to be a long term investor in equities then focus on generating alpha. 
Warren: I'm not so sure about that Ray, there are plenty of cases where people have tried to generate alpha but they haven't succeeded. There is nothing wrong with being a passive investor and buying the market index instead of trying to beat it, I just do what I think is right for my clients.

Ray: Passivity in equities is the worst thing you can possibly be! Warren that's one of your greatest mistakes in investing and its cost me a lot of money!
Warren: Well we all have our weaknesses Ray, but I don't believe diversification is a weakness or something you should ignore. We have a lot of people here at Bridgewater who are trying to generate alpha from the markets but they can't do it consistently and therefore when they get back the results they are not as good as the index.

Ray: That is because their approach is passive, this is why we have always been active in the markets and generated our returns through investing in highly concentrated bets where we understand the risks. The greatest lesson I've learnt in life so far has been that the way to be a successful investor is to be unconstrained, not only by time but also to constantly evolve one's view of what the world will look like, this means being open minded and always learning new concepts.

Warren: Well I guess we all have our own styles of investing and you can't learn everything in life so we must focus on the things that are most important to us. For me it is understanding what a business does, what its fundamentals are and how much money they make, this helps me understand the risk profile of each company I hold.

Ray: And I disagree with you completely! The way to invest successfully is to be constantly learning and looking at new opportunities, which means being open minded about your views on the world! For us we focus on managing our own capital so that we can continue to compound it over time. We are not interested in trying to pick winners or losers because I think this is a fools errand, but instead we use a disciplined approach of investing and rebalancing as we go.

Warren: You're right about the need for continuous learning, however that doesn't mean you have to be wrong in your judgement at times. We are not interested in trying to pick winners or losers because I think this is a fools errand! Instead, we try to understand what each company does and how it makes money. Once we see an opportunity then we decide whether to take advantage of it or pass on it.

Warren: In the long run, markets tend to go up. They may be volatile along the way and there is much debate about when they will end. However I know that in all of history the worst time to invest has been in the 5 years before you need your money.

Warren: What I've found useful is to look at what a company does, how it makes money, and whether its management thinks long term and invests for the future. If we can understand what they do as well as their competitors then we have an advantage in buying stocks.

Ray: The most important thing about investing is that you don't need to be right all of the time, it's only when you are wrong that things get expensive, if you sell too early or buy too late. 

Warren: What we have learned from experience is that a business will perform well when its price trades at close to where I think it should be. If a stock has been undervalued and moves up in value then I will buy more of it, if it's overvalued and drops in value I will sell. 

Ray: How can you get a good result if you are not willing to take positions that have a downside risk? You should be willing to take losses and accept the upside as a byproduct of this. 

Warren: I am always looking for good businesses, it is important in my opinion to buy them at a discount and sell them at a premium, you want your businesses to outperform over time. 

Ray: It's not difficult to make money if your investment strategy is simply to own companies that have the potential to increase their intrinsic value faster than they are depreciated by capital markets - which will happen on average 70% of the time in my experience. If you are willing to hold a concentrated portfolio for more than 3 years and to be patient then you can create substantial wealth, but only if you have a good understanding of what you are buying. 

Warren: Investors should never forget that they don't know how things work out in the long term - you have to be willing to accept a certain level of uncertainty and you must be able to sleep at night when your bet is on the line, as I can. 

Ray: Well Warren there are many ways to create wealth, I believe that capital markets provide us with unparalleled access to this resource, by identifying mispriced assets we can buy and hold these for long periods of time - in doing so investors will have a chance to be very successful. 

Warren: I think the most important factor is your temperament and the ability to control your emotions. This is what creates an edge in markets, where others are overreacting fearfully or greedily. A good method is to avoid becoming too attached to specific investments, instead betting on a process which should lead to consistent results over time. 

Ray: Well Warren I think that the best way we can make money is by focusing on macro level dynamics and understanding what creates value in financial markets - this involves us being open minded, humble and willing to learn new ideas at every opportunity. This means taking a holistic view of finance and not being overly focussed or narrow. 

Warren: I do agree with you Ray, it's important to be open-minded in our approach but it also involves avoiding greed and complacency. In your career you have made some very risky moves such as short selling the hedge fund industry when the market was going bullish for them in the 90s - I think this is a great example of how not to manage investments, especially given your background as an analyst. 

Ray: Warren you are wrong, I was right to be shorting those funds, it was the best thing I did at that time and I've seen my peers replicate the same strategy with the same success in more recent times when investors became excited about hedge funds - you don't need great intelligence or skill to do this if you are patient enough. 

Warren: We have all made mistakes throughout our careers, I think it is important to avoid those that could be potentially disastrous and to learn from them so they can never happen again. 

Ray: That's good advice but the markets don't really reward people for being patient in a bull market, you have to take advantage of these periods when they come around - I would also recommend that you should think about your own success and failures rather than those of others, what have been my biggest mistakes ? 

Warren: If you can't answer how I have done well then why would you want to invest in my company.

Ray: That's a fair point but it is still important to understand that the markets do not reward patience when they are bullish - take advantage of these periods. 

Warren: Don't be greedy, if I am confident about an investment then I will go in with all my money and if someone wanted to invest too I would let them go in for a share. But you should never over diversify yourself out of an opportunity. 

Ray: It is not about the size of your bet but rather how much of it you can stomach, so I have always been careful when diversifying, even if I am very confident I would spread my money across multiple positions as this keeps me more flexible in case one or two go wrong. 

Warren: I don't think we have time for many more questions but I will take the next one - How did you come up with your Bridgewater style of investing ? 

Ray: My strategy is all about being able to understand when to hold on, when to sell and when to hold off from making a decision. This has been hard won over time as I have learned that when things are going well it's easy to get ahead of yourself and be too confident in the future, while at other times it's important to not panic either - this is where understanding your position and being able to think with a long term focus will help. 

Warren: Thank you for your time Ray, I wish we had more time but we must move on as this event is now open to members of the public.
\end{code} [end of text]

